ReleaseNotes: Updated changelog and release notes for 8.0.0-beta3 (#35039)
grafana/grafana: CHANGELOG.md

<!-- 8.0.0-beta3 START -->

# 8.0.0-beta3 (2021-06-01)

### Features and enhancements

* **API:** Support folder UID in dashboards API. [#33991](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/33991), [@zserge](https://github.com/zserge)
* **Alerting:** Add support for configuring avatar URL for the Discord notifier. [#33355](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/33355), [@ChipWolf](https://github.com/ChipWolf)
* **Alerting:** Clarify that Threema Gateway Alerts support only Basic IDs. [#34828](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34828), [@dbrgn](https://github.com/dbrgn)

> * **Azure:** Expose azure settings to external plugins. [#34484](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34484), [@sunker](https://github.com/sunker)

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **AzureMonitor:** Deprecate using separate credentials for Logs. [#34758](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34758), [@andresmgot](https://github.com/andresmgot)

Reviewer 2: Logs is the proper name of the Azure service. Perhaps it should read "Azure Monitor Logs"?

> * **AzureMonitor:** Deprecate using separate credentials for Logs. [#34758](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34758), [@andresmgot](https://github.com/andresmgot)

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **AzureMonitor:** Display variables in Logs resource picker. [#34648](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34648), [@joshhunt](https://github.com/joshhunt)

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **AzureMonitor:** Hide App Insights for data sources not using it. [#34725](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34725), [@joshhunt](https://github.com/joshhunt)

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **AzureMonitor:** Support querying Subscriptions and Resource Groups in Logs. [#34766](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34766), [@joshhunt](https://github.com/joshhunt)

Reviewer: Fixed!

* **AzureMonitor:** remove requirement for default subscription. [#34787](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34787), [@kostrse](https://github.com/kostrse)
* **CloudWatch:** Add Lambda@Edge Amazon CloudFront metrics. [#34561](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34561), [@razor-x](https://github.com/razor-x)

> * **CloudWatch:** Add missing AWS/AppSync metrics. [#34691](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34691), [@razor-x](https://github.com/razor-x)

Reviewer: Fixed!

* **ConfirmModal:** Auto focus delete button. [#34917](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34917), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

> * **Explore:** Add caching for queries run from logs navigation. [#34297](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34297), [@ivanahuckova](https://github.com/ivanahuckova)

Reviewer: Fixed!

* **Loki:** Add formatting for annotations. [#34774](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34774), [@fredr](https://github.com/fredr)

> * **Loki:** Bring back processed bytes as meta info. [#34092](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34092), [@mmenbawy](https://github.com/mmenbawy)

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **NodeGraph:** Show node graph collapsed by default with trace view. [#34491](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34491), [@aocenas](https://github.com/aocenas)

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **Overrides:** Hide from visualization should be available as a manual override option. [#34783](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34783), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Overrides:** Include a manual override option to hide something from visualization. [#34783](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34783), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **PieChart:** Support row data in pie chart. [#34755](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34755), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **PieChart:** Support row data in pie charts. [#34755](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34755), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

* **Prometheus:** Update default HTTP method to POST for existing data sources. [#34599](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34599), [@ivanahuckova](https://github.com/ivanahuckova)

> * **Time series panel:** Position tooltip correctly when window scrolled or resized. [#34782](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34782), [@dprokop](https://github.com/dprokop)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Time series panel:** Position tooltip correctly when window is scrolled or resized. [#34782](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34782), [@dprokop](https://github.com/dprokop)
```

Reviewer 4: @osg-grafana please edit the original PR titles - this file is autogenerated

Reviewer: Fixed!

### Bug fixes

> * **Admin:** Fixes infinite loading edit profile page. [#34627](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34627), [@hugohaggmark](https://github.com/hugohaggmark)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Admin:** Fix infinite loading edit on the profile page. [#34627](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34627), [@hugohaggmark](https://github.com/hugohaggmark)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **Color:** Fixes issues with random colors in string and date fields. [#34913](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34913), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Color:** Fix issues with random colors in string and date fields. [#34913](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34913), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **Dashboard:** Fixes issue with title or folder change has no effect after exiting settings view. [#34677](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34677), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Dashboard:** Fix issue with title or folder change has no effect after exiting settings view. [#34677](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34677), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **DataLinks:** Fixes an issue __series.name is not working in data link. [#34932](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34932), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **DataLinks:** Fix an issue __series.name is not working in data link. [#34932](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34932), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

* **Datasource:** Fix dataproxy timeout should always be applied for outgoing data source HTTP requests. [#34597](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34597), [@dsotirakis](https://github.com/dsotirakis)
* **Elasticsearch:** Fix NewClient not passing httpClientProvider to client impl. [#34539](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34539), [@KiVirgil](https://github.com/KiVirgil)
* **Explore:** Fix Browser title not updated on Navigation to Explore. [#34651](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34651), [@axelavargas](https://github.com/axelavargas)
* **GraphNG:** Remove fieldName and hideInLegend properties from UPlotSeriesBuilder. [#34901](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34901), [@dprokop](https://github.com/dprokop)
* **OAuth:** Fix fallback to auto_assign_org_role setting for Azure AD OAuth when no role claims exists. [#34838](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34838), [@idafurjes](https://github.com/idafurjes)
* **PanelChrome:** Fix issue with empty panel after adding a non data panel and coming back from panel edit. [#34765](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34765), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

> * **StatPanel:** Fixes data link tooltip not showing for single value. [#34934](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34934), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **StatPanel:** Fix data link tooltip not showing for single value. [#34934](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34934), [@torkelo](https://github.com/torkelo)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **Table:** Fixes sorting for number fields. [#34722](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34722), [@hugohaggmark](https://github.com/hugohaggmark)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Table:** Fix sorting for number fields. [#34722](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34722), [@hugohaggmark](https://github.com/hugohaggmark)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **Table:** datalink to have text underline and support for image datalink. [#34635](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34635), [@thisisobate](https://github.com/thisisobate)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Table:** Have text underline for datalink, and add support for image datalink. [#34635](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34635), [@thisisobate](https://github.com/thisisobate)
```

Reviewer 3: Please vet this change.

Reviewer 4: @osg-grafana please edit the original PR titles - this file is autogenerated

Reviewer 3: I do not have time, unfortunately. I am full on on FGAC atm.

Reviewer 3: We need to figure this out per PR going forward.

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **Time series panel:** Position tooltip correctly when window scrolled or resized. [#34584](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34584), [@dprokop](https://github.com/dprokop)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Time series panel:** Position tooltip correctly when window is scrolled or resized. [#34584](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34584), [@dprokop](https://github.com/dprokop)
```

Reviewer 4: @osg-grafana please edit the original PR titles - this file is autogenerated

Reviewer: Fixed!

> * **Transformations:** Prevent FilterByValue transform crashing panel edit. [#34747](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34747), [@jackw](https://github.com/jackw)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Transformations:** Prevent FilterByValue transform from crashing panel edit. [#34747](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/34747), [@jackw](https://github.com/jackw)
```

Reviewer 4: @osg-grafana please edit the original PR titles - this file is autogenerated

Reviewer: Fixed!

### Breaking changes

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Ignoring this as this is auto generated

> The default HTTP method for Prometheus data source is now POST, previously it was GET. The POST APIs are there since January 2018 (Prometheus 2.1.0) and they have fewer limitations than the GET APIs (e.g. when dealing with high cardinality labels, GET hits the URL size limit). Users with Prometheus instance with version < 2.1.0 that use the default HTTP method should update their HTTP method to GET. Issue [#34599](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/34599)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default HTTP method for Prometheus data source is now POST. Previously, it was GET. The POST APIs have been available since January 2018 (Prometheus 2.1.0) and they have fewer limitations than the GET APIs. For example, when dealing with high cardinality labels, GET hits the URL size limit.

If you have a Prometheus instance with version < 2.1.0, which uses the default HTTP method, update your HTTP method to GET. Issue [#34599](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/34599)
```

Reviewer: Fixed!
